Legislature	Bill Number	Shortened Title	Title	Cosponsors	Description	Sponsor	Latest Action
Maine	HB44	An Act To Establish the Summer Success Pilot Program Fund	An Act To Establish the Summer Success Pilot Program Fund	0	Creates a pilot summer learning program to combat learning loss.	Representative Teresa PIERCE of Falmouth	The Bill was REFERRED to the Committee on EDUCATION AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS pursuant to Joint Rule 308.2 and ordered printed pursuant to Joint Rule 401.
Maryland	HB237	State Department of Education - Early Literacy and Dyslexia Practices - Guidance and Assistance	State Department of Education - Early Literacy and Dyslexia Practices - Guidance and Assistance	0	Requiring the State Department of Education to establish a stakeholder advisory group to develop a reading and dyslexia handbook to guide local school systems in the implementation of best practices for early literacy and dyslexia; requiring the development of tools and materials to address the needs of at-risk and struggling students with dyslexia.	Ebersole	First Reading Ways and Means
Maryland	SB371	Special Education - Individualized Education Programs - Educational Evaluations	Special Education - Individualized Education Programs - Educational Evaluations	0	Updates IEP parental rules.	Peters	Hearing 2/11 at 11:00 a.m.
Maryland	HB566	County Boards of Education - Virtual Schools - Requirement	County Boards of Education - Virtual Schools - Requirement	0	Requires each county to establish virtual schools to provide students with an alternative to traditional classroom instruction; and requiring certain virtual schools to provide instruction to students in each grade level.	Long	Hearing 2/05 at 1:30 p.m.
Maryland	HB665	Education - Public Charter Schools - Virtual Learning Programs	Education - Public Charter Schools - Virtual Learning Programs	0	"Altering the definition of ""public charter school"" to include a virtual learning program; defining ""virtual learning program"" as a program of instruction that provides a significant portion of its curriculum and delivers a significant portion of its instruction to its students by teachers in an interactive learning environment through the Internet; and requiring a virtual learning program of a public charter school to employ a teacher with the same certification required by professional staff of other public schools."	Boteler	First Reading Ways and Means
New Hampshire	HB242	relative to the content of an adequate education.	relative to the content of an adequate education.	5	"Requires additional funding from the state for students that have special educational needs, are ELL, or are economically disadvantaged."	Rick Ladd	Introduced (in recess of) 01/06/2021 and referred to Education
New Hampshire	HB194	relative to the release of student assessment information and data.	relative to the release of student assessment information and data.	7	Updates student privacy laws and allows the state department of education to request the testing entity to assessment results to students and families. The department may collect student address information for the purpose of distributing results. Requires that the data must be destroyed after the student completed grade 8 or is no longer enrolled in a NH school. Anyone who violates these rules is guilty of a class B felony.	Glenn Cordelli	Public Hearing: 01/26/2021 02:15 pm Members of the public may attend using the following link: To join the webinar: https://www.zoom.us/j/91325381640 / Executive session on pending legislation may be held throughout the day (time permitting) from the time the committee is initially convened.
New Hampshire	HB323	relative to a statewide student assessment report.	relative to a statewide student assessment report.	7	"Requires each school to provide parents, guardians, and teachers individual student performance on the statewide assessment as soon as practicably possible after the test is taken, but no later than June 30."	Rick Ladd	Public Hearing: 01/26/2021 02:15 pm Members of the public may attend using the following link: To join the webinar: https://www.zoom.us/j/91325381640 / Executive session on pending legislation may be held throughout the day (time permitting) from the time the committee is initially convened.
New Hampshire	HB153	establishing a committee to study universal Internet access for New Hampshire.	establishing a committee to study universal Internet access for New Hampshire.	5	Estalishes a committee to study universal Internet access for New Hampshire.	Lee Oxenham	Public Hearing: 02/01/2021 02:00 pm Members of the public may attend using the following link: To join the webinar: https://www.zoom.us/j/92752912485 / Executive session on pending legislation may be held throughout the day (time permitting) from the time the committee is initially convened.
New York	S1030	Establishes the community schools act; appropriation	Establishes the community schools act; appropriation	0	Establishes the community schools act; authorizes the commissioner to award grants for community schools programming	Andrea Stewart-Cousins	REFERRED TO FINANCE
New York	S273	Establishes a culturally responsive education curriculum and standards; appropriation	Establishes a culturally responsive education curriculum and standards; appropriation	10	"Establishes a culturally responsive education curriculum and standards; requires all school districts, charter schools and private schools to integrate culturally responsive education throughout the education of all students at all grade levels; establishes a pilot program in culturally responsive education;"	Zellnor Myrie	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	A1912	Establishes procedures related to home instruction	Establishes procedures related to home instruction	10	Establishes procedures related to home instruction to assist school authorities and parents.	William Magnarelli	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	A2283	Requires school districts to conduct mandatory early screening for dyslexia for all children	Requires school districts to conduct mandatory early screening for dyslexia for all children	16	"Requires school districts to conduct mandatory early screening for dyslexia for all children commencing in pre-kindergarten or kindergarten and continuing thereafter on an annual basis until each child successfully completes second grade; requires school districts to designate an individual to maintain complete and accurate records containing early screening reports for each child, and to provide resources and materials to the parent and/or guardian of any child who displays indications of dyslexia."	Jo Anne Simon	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	S1293	Requires school districts to conduct mandatory early screening for dyslexia for all children	Requires school districts to conduct mandatory early screening for dyslexia for all children	10	"Requires school districts to conduct mandatory early screening for dyslexia for all children commencing in pre-kindergarten or kindergarten and continuing thereafter on an annual basis until each child successfully completes second grade; requires school districts to designate an individual to maintain complete and accurate records containing early screening reports for each child, and to provide resources and materials to the parent and/or guardian of any child who displays indications of dyslexia."	John E. Brooks	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	A2185	Establishes a dyslexia task force and implementing the findings of such task force	Establishes a dyslexia task force and implementing the findings of such task force	28	Relates to establishing a dyslexia task force and implementing the findings of such task force.	Robert C. Carroll	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	S441	Establishes a dyslexia task force and implementing the findings of such task force	Establishes a dyslexia task force and implementing the findings of such task force	2	Relates to establishing a dyslexia task force and implementing the findings of such task force.	Brad Hoylman	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	A556	Establishes interventions for children with dyslexia or other phonological learning differences or disabilities	Establishes interventions for children with dyslexia or other phonological learning differences or disabilities	25	Requires each school district to provide interventions and special curricula for children with dyslexia or other phonological learning differences or disabilities.	Robert C. Carroll	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	S1285	"Requires the certification or training of teachers, administrators and instructors in the area of dyslexia and related disorders"	"Requires the certification or training of teachers, administrators and instructors in the area of dyslexia and related disorders"	4	"Requires the certification or training of teachers, administrators and instructors in the area of dyslexia and related disorders."	John E. Brooks	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	A1426	Establishes family literacy programs for economically disadvantaged families living in poverty areas or areas with low-performing public schools	Establishes family literacy programs for economically disadvantaged families living in poverty areas or areas with low-performing public schools	0	Establishes family literacy programs for economically disadvantaged families living in poverty areas or areas with low-performing public schools; provides for competitive matching grants to establish a comprehensive program; requires commissioner of education to submit an annual report to the governor and legislature.	J. Gary Pretlow	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	S1926	Establishes interventions for children with dyslexia or other phonological learning differences or disabilities	Establishes interventions for children with dyslexia or other phonological learning differences or disabilities	1	Requires each school district to provide interventions and special curricula for children with dyslexia or other phonological learning differences or disabilities.	Robert Jackson	REFERRED TO DISABILITIES
New York	A1380	Relates to screening and services for dyslexic children	Relates to screening and services for dyslexic children	0	Requires screening for dyslexia and provides for intervention services for dyslexic children.	Robert C. Carroll	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	S1930	Relates to language equality and acquisition for deaf children	Relates to language equality and acquisition for deaf children	0	Requires the department of education and the New York state school for the deaf to jointly select language developmental milestones from existing standardized norms for purposes of developing a resource for use by parents to monitor and track deaf and hard-of-hearing children's expressive and receptive language acquisition and developmental stages toward English literacy.	Robert Jackson	REFERRED TO DISABILITIES
New York	A1022	"Relates to culturally responsive lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender education standards"	"Relates to culturally responsive lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender education standards"	0	"Relates to culturally responsive lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender education standards."	Harry B. Bronson	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	A2062	Requires a reading proficiency level assessment and dyslexia screening for certain incarcerated individuals	Requires a reading proficiency level assessment and dyslexia screening for certain incarcerated individuals	17	Requires all incarcerated individuals who do not have a high-school diploma or its equivalent to receive a reading proficiency-level assessment and dyslexia screening upon intake; and requires for such individuals who perform below a certain proficiency level to be provided with dyslexia intervention that is evidence-based effective and consistent with science-based research specifically tailored to addressing dyslexia.	Jo Anne Simon	REFERRED TO CORRECTION
New York	S307	Requires a reading proficiency level assessment and dyslexia screening for certain incarcerated individuals	Requires a reading proficiency level assessment and dyslexia screening for certain incarcerated individuals	9	Requires all incarcerated individuals who do not have a high-school diploma or its equivalent to receive a reading proficiency-level assessment and dyslexia screening upon intake; and requires for such individuals who perform below a certain proficiency level to be provided with dyslexia intervention that is evidence-based effective and consistent with science-based research specifically tailored to addressing dyslexia.	Zellnor Myrie	REFERRED TO CRIME VICTIMS CRIME AND CORRECTION
New York	A838	Relates to students with dyslexia	Relates to students with dyslexia	21	Establishes schools dedicated to teaching dyslexic students in certain school districts.	Robert C. Carroll	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	A2401	Directs the commissioner of education to create a pilot program to improve social and emotional learning in schools	Directs the commissioner of education to create a pilot program to improve social and emotional learning in schools	13	Directs the commissioner of education to create a pilot program to improve social and emotional learning in schools.	Vivian Cook	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
New York	A3323	Requires consent prior to sharing certain student information	Requires consent prior to sharing certain student information	0	Requires consent prior to sharing certain student information with third party contractors.	Harvey Epstein	REFERRED TO EDUCATION
Pennsylvania	HB86	"An Act amending the act of March 10, 1949 (P.L.30, No.14), known as the Public School Code of 1949, providing for online instruction."	"An Act amending the act of March 10, 1949 (P.L.30, No.14), known as the Public School Code of 1949, providing for online instruction."	17	Adds a section covering online instruction to the Public School Code.	"MILLER, D."	PN 0059 Referred to EDUCATION
Rhode Island	H5027	EDUCATION ACCOUNTABILITY ACT (Incorporates SurveyWorks school climate indicators for evaluating the performance of LEAs and individual public schools.)	Incorporates SurveyWorks school climate indicators for evaluating the performance of LEAs and individual public schools.	0	Incorporates SurveyWorks school climate indicators for evaluating the performance of LEAs and individual public schools.	McNamara	Introduced referred to House H.E.W.
Rhode Island	H5018	Directs the council on elementary and secondary education to develop recommendations for a high school curriculum to prepare students for successful postsecondary education and careers in computer science.	AN ACT RELATING TO EDUCATION -- CURRICULUM (Directs the council on elementary and secondary education to develop recommendations for a high school curriculum to prepare students for successful postsecondary education and careers in computer science.)	0	Directs the council on elementary and secondary education to develop recommendations for a high school curriculum to prepare students for successful postsecondary education and careers in computer science.	Lombardi	Introduced referred to House H.E.W.
Rhode Island	S33	EDUCATION ACCOUTABILITY ACT (Requires that the board of education incorporate additional questions into its annual assessment of schools and related surveys and provide annual reports to the house of representatives and the senate.)	AN ACT RELATING TO EDUCATION -- EDUCATION ACCOUTABILITY ACT (Requires that the board of education incorporate additional questions into its annual assessment of schools and related surveys and provide annual reports to the house of representatives and the senate.)	1	Requires that the board of education incorporate additional questions into its annual assessment of schools and related surveys and provide annual reports to the house of representatives and the senate.	Goldin	Introduced referred to Senate Education
South Carolina	HB3613	Early literacy and numeracy screening	Early literacy and numeracy screening	1	Requires the State Department of Education to approve no more than five reliable and valid early literacy and   numeracy   screening   assessment   instruments for use by school   districts   in   kindergarten   through   third   grade. Also requires the department to implement an online reporting system.	Lucas	Referred to Committee on Education and Public Works
South Carolina	HB3592	Statewide assessment	Statewide assessment	1	"Removes social studies from among the subjects assessed in 3-8, provides specific diagnostic information that the assessments must include, and to provide certain related information that districts and schools shall provide parents or guardians of students being assessed."	Allison	Referred to Committee on Education and Public Works
Vermont	H101	"An act relating to the implementation of 2018 Acts and Resolves No. 173 by providing grant funding to build systems-driven, sustainable literacy support for all students with measurable outcomes"	"An act relating to the implementation of 2018 Acts and Resolves No. 173 by providing grant funding to build systems-driven, sustainable literacy support for all students with measurable outcomes"	1	"An act relating to the implementation of 2018 Acts and Resolves No. 173 by providing grant funding to build systems-driven, sustainable literacy support for all students with measurable outcomes"	"Rep. Sarah ""Sarita"" Austin"	Read First Time and Referred to the Committee on Education
Vermont	H106	An act relating to equitable access to a high-quality education through community schools	An act relating to equitable access to a high-quality education through community schools	28	Established community schools.	Rep. Kathleen James	Read First Time and Referred to the Committee on Education
Virginia	HB1929	School Equity and Staffing Act; Standards of Quality; work-based learning; teacher leaders and mentors; principal mentors; certain personnel positions and initiatives.		12	"Makes several changes to the Standards of Quality, including developing a teacher mentorship program and providing additional funding and student-teacher ratio limits for schools with hi concentrations of poverty. Requires the lowering of ELL students to faculty and establishes flexible funding to support at-risk students."	Lashrecse D. Aird	Referred to Committee on Appropriations
Virginia	SB1257	Standards of Quality; work-based learning; teacher leaders and mentors; principal mentors; certain personnel positions and initiatives.	"Standards of Quality; work-based learning; teacher leaders and mentors; principal mentors; certain personnel positions and initiatives. Makes several changes to the Standards of Quality, including requiring the establishment of units in the Department of Education to oversee work-based learning and principal mentorship statewide in Standard 1 and requiring the Board of Education to establish and oversee the local implementation of teacher leader and teacher mentor programs in Standard 5. The bill also makes several changes relating to school personnel in Standard 2, including (i) establishing schoolwide ratios of students to teachers in certain schools with high concentrations of poverty and granting flexibility to provide compensation adjustments to teachers in such schools; (ii) requiring each school board to assign licensed personnel in a manner that provides an equitable distribution of experienced, effective teachers and other personnel among all schools in the local school division; (iii) requiring each school board to employ teacher leaders and teacher mentors at specified student-to-position ratios; (iv) requiring state funding in addition to basic aid to support at-risk students and granting flexibility in the use of such funds by school boards; (v) lowering the ratio of English language learner students to teachers; (vi) requiring each school board to employ reading specialists and establishing a student-to-position ratio for such specialists; (vii) requiring school boards to employ one full-time principal in each elementary school; (viii) lowering the ratio of students to assistant principals and school counselors in elementary, middle, and high schools; and (ix) requiring each school board to provide at least four specialized student support positions, including school social workers, school psychologists, school nurses, licensed behavior analysts, licensed assistant behavior analysts, and other licensed health and behavioral positions, per 1,000 students."	0	"Makes several changes to the Standards of Quality, including developing a teacher mentorship program and providing additional funding and student-teacher ratio limits for schools with hi concentrations of poverty. Requires the lowering of ELL students to faculty and establishes flexible funding to support at-risk students."	Jennifer L. McClellan	Assigned Education sub: Public Education
Virginia	HB1865	Certain students in kindergarten through grade 3; reading intervention services.	"Requires reading intervention services for students in kindergarten through grade three who demonstrate deficiencies based on their individual performance on the Standards of Learning reading test or any reading diagnostic test that meets criteria established by the Department of Education to be evidence-based and aligned with the science of reading and structured literacy approaches, both defined in the bill, and to include the components of effective reading instruction and explicit, systematic, sequential, and cumulative instruction. The bill requires the parent of each student who receives such reading intervention services to be notified before the services begin and the progress of each such student to be monitored throughout the provision of services. The bill also requires the Department of Education, no later than the beginning of the 2021%962022 school year, to compile and provide to each local school division a list of materials, resources, and curriculum programs that are supported by the science of reading and based on instruction that is explicit, systematic, cumulative, and diagnostic, including (i) evidence-based dyslexia programs that are aligned to structured literacy or grounded in the Orton-Gillingham methodology and (ii) evidence-based reading intervention programs, including programs that are grounded in the science of reading."	11	"Requires reading intervention services for students grade K-3 who demonstrate deficiencies based on performance on the Standards of Learning or any reading diagnostic test established by the Department of Education to be evidenced-based and aligned with the science of reading. The bill also requires the Department of Education to compile and provide to each local school division a list of materials, resources, and curriculum programs that are supported by the science of reading and based on instruction that is explicit, systematic, cumulative, and diagnostic, including evidence-based dyslexia evidence-based reading intervention programs."	Karrie K. Delaney	Printed as engrossed 21101101D-E
Virginia	SB1288	Department of Education; special education. 	Department of Education; special education. Requires the Department of Education and the Board of Education to develop new policies and procedures and effect numerous modifications to existing policies and procedures to improve the administration and oversight of special education in the Commonwealth.	0	Focuses on ensuring IEPs are inclusive and explanatory for families and requires the statewide use of the Inclusive Schools Self-Assessment instrument.	Siobhan S. Dunnavant	Assigned Education sub: Public Education
Virginia	HB2094	Public schools; Standards of Learning assessments; reduction.	"Reduces the total number and type of required Standards of Learning assessments to the minimum requirements established by the federal Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended."	4	"Reduces the total number and type of required Standards of Learning assessments to the minimum requirements established by the federal Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended."	Israel D. O'Quinn	Assigned Education sub: SOL and SOQ
Virginia	SB1401	Standards of Learning assessments; reduction; report. 	"Standards of Learning assessments; reduction; report. Reduces the total number and type of required Standards of Learning assessments to the minimum requirements established by the federal Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended. The bill requires the Department of Education to annually report on the estimated projected and actual savings from the implementation of the bill and report the amount of such savings to the Governor and the Chairmen of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations no later than the first day of each Regular Session of the General Assembly. The bill also requires that such amount be included in the total for Direct Aid to Public Education in any general appropriation act."	1	"Reduces the total number and type of required Standards of Learning assessments to the minimum requirements established by the federal Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended."	Todd E. Pillion	Assigned Education sub: Public Education
Virginia	HB2027	Standards of Learning assessments; reading and mathematics; grades three through eight; individual student growth. 	"Standards of Learning assessments; reading and mathematics; grades three through eight; individual student growth. Requires, no later than the 2024-2025 school year, each reading and mathematics Standards of Learning assessment for students in grades three through eight to (i) be administered three times per school year, at the beginning, in the middle, and at the end of each school year, for the purpose of providing measures of individual student growth over the course of the school year and (ii) provide accurate measurement of a student's performance outside of his grade level through the incorporation, through computer adaptive technology, of test items at grade levels below and above the tested level. The bill requires any student growth data to include such measurement of outside-of-grade-level performance. The bill requires the Department of Education to ensure adequate training for teachers and principals on how to interpret and use student growth data from such assessments to improve reading and mathematics instruction in grades three through eight throughout the school year. The bill prohibits the total time spent taking each such assessment over each of the three annual administrations from exceeding 150 percent of the time spent taking a single end-of-year proficiency assessment."	10	"Requires each reading and mathematics Standards of Learning assessment for students in grades three through eight to (i) be administered three times per school year, at the beginning, in the middle, and at the end of each school year, for the purpose of providing measures of individual student growth over the course of the school year and (ii) provide accurate measurement of a student's performance outside of his grade level through the incorporation, through computer adaptive technology, of test items at grade levels below and above the tested level. The bill requires any student growth data to include such measurement of outside-of-grade-level performance. The bill requires the Department of Education to ensure adequate training for teachers and principals on how to interpret and use student growth data from such assessments to improve reading and mathematics instruction in grades three through eight throughout the school year. The bill prohibits the total time spent taking each such assessment over each of the three annual administrations from exceeding 150 percent of the time spent taking a single end-of-year proficiency assessment."	Carrie E. Coyner	Assigned App. sub: Elementary & Secondary Education
Virginia	HB1904	Teachers and other licensed school board employees; cultural competency. 	"Teachers and other licensed school board employees; cultural competency. The bill requires teacher, principal, and division superintendent evaluations to include an evaluation of cultural competency. The bill requires every person seeking initial licensure or renewal of a license from the Board of Education (i) to complete instruction or training in cultural competency and (ii) with an endorsement in history and social sciences to complete instruction in African American history, as prescribed by the Board. The bill also requires each school board to adopt and implement policies that require each teacher and any other school board employee holding a license issued by the Board to complete cultural competency training, in accordance with guidance issued by the Board, at least every two years."	13	"Requires teacher, principal, and division superintendent evaluations to include an evaluation of cultural competency. The bill requires every person seeking initial licensure or renewal of a license from the Board of Education (i) to complete instruction or training in cultural competency and (ii) with an endorsement in history and social sciences to complete instruction in African American history, as prescribed by the Board. The bill also requires each school board to adopt and implement policies that require each teacher and any other school board employee holding a license issued by the Board to complete cultural competency training, in accordance with guidance issued by the Board, at least every two years."	Clinton L. Jenkins	Referred to Committee on Education and Health
Virginia	SB1196	"Teachers and other licensed school board employees; cultural competency. The bill requires teacher, principal, and division superintendent evaluations to include an evaluation of cultural competency. The bill requires every person seeking initial licensure or renewal of a license from the Board of Education (i) to complete instruction or training in cultural competency and (ii) with an endorsement in history and social sciences to complete instruction in African American history, as prescribed by the Board. The bill also requires each school board to adopt and implement policies that require each teacher and any other school board employee holding a license issued by the Board to complete cultural competency training, in accordance with guidance issued by the Board, at least every two years."	"Teachers and other licensed school board employees; cultural competency. The bill requires teacher, principal, and division superintendent evaluations to include an evaluation of cultural competency. The bill requires every person seeking initial licensure or renewal of a license from the Board of Education (i) to complete instruction or training in cultural competency and (ii) with an endorsement in history and social sciences to complete instruction in African American history, as prescribed by the Board. The bill also requires each school board to adopt and implement policies that require each teacher and any other school board employee holding a license issued by the Board to complete cultural competency training, in accordance with guidance issued by the Board, at least every two years."	1	"Requires teacher, principal, and division superintendent evaluations to include an evaluation of cultural competency. The bill requires every person seeking initial licensure or renewal of a license from the Board of Education (i) to complete instruction or training in cultural competency and (ii) with an endorsement in history and social sciences to complete instruction in African American history, as prescribed by the Board. The bill also requires each school board to adopt and implement policies that require each teacher and any other school board employee holding a license issued by the Board to complete cultural competency training, in accordance with guidance issued by the Board, at least every two years."	Mamie E. Locke	Rereferred to Finance and Appropriations
Virginia	HJ549	"Study; JLARC; impact of COVID-19 on Virginia's public schools, students, and school employees; report. "	"Study; JLARC; impact of COVID-19 on Virginia's public schools, students, and school employees; report. Directs the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission to study the impact of COVID-19 on Virginia's public schools, students, and school employees, including (i) examining and determining reasons for barriers to student success in virtual and hybrid models as well as the overall impact of COVID-19 face-to-face learning restrictions on previously existing student achievement gaps, student achievement, and student well-being, including any disproportionate impact on at-risk populations; (ii) determining the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on staffing levels, including the impact of teacher and school employee retirements and resignations on delivery of instruction and the ability of local school boards to fully staff their needs, employment levels, and local budgets; (iii) determining the short-term and projected long-term changes in student enrollment in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of such changes on funding levels; (iv) determining the impact of implementing COVID-19 health and safety measures in public schools; (v) evaluating public schools' level of emergency preparedness to face another pandemic or statewide crisis and making recommendations to help guide planning for such events and (vi) examining programs that can address learning loss and identifying barriers to implementing those programs, including resource gaps."	6	"Commissions a study on the impact of COVID-19 on Virginia's public schools, students, and school employees."	Nancy D. Guy	Reported from Rules with amendment(s) (18-Y 0-N)
Virginia	SJ308	"Study; JLARC; impact of COVID-19 on Virginia's public schools, students, and school employees; report."	"Study; JLARC; impact of COVID-19 on Virginia's public schools, students, and school employees; report. Directs the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission to study the impact of COVID-19 on Virginia's public schools, students, and school employees, including (i) examining and determining reasons for barriers to student success in virtual and hybrid models as well as the overall impact of COVID-19 face-to-face learning restrictions on previously existing student achievement gaps, student achievement, and student well-being, including any disproportionate impact on at-risk populations; (ii) determining the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on staffing levels, including the impact of teacher and school employee retirements and resignations on delivery of instruction and the ability of local school boards to fully staff their needs, employment levels, and local budgets; (iii) determining the short-term and projected long-term changes in student enrollment in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of such changes on funding levels; (iv) determining the impact of implementing COVID-19 health and safety measures in public schools; (v) evaluating public schools' level of emergency preparedness to face another pandemic or statewide crisis and making recommendations to help guide planning for such events and (vi) examining programs that can address learning loss and identifying barriers to implementing those programs, including resource gaps."	2	"Commissions a study on the impact of COVID-19 on Virginia's public schools, students, and school employees."	L. Louise Lucas	Reported from Rules with amendments by voice vote
Virginia	SB1433	Public education; voucher program; emergency.	"Public education; voucher program; emergency. Provides that, if a school operates a reduced schedule and the school offers online or virtual learning as a substitute for in-person attendance, it shall deposit a portion of unused funds resulting from the reduced schedule in a voucher account for each student, for use on programs operated by the school division or other educational options, whether public, private, or parochial."	0	"Provides that, if a school operates a reduced schedule and the school offers online or virtual learning as a substitute for in-person attendance, it shall deposit a portion of unused funds resulting from the reduced schedule in a voucher account for each student"	Amanda F. Chase	Referred to Committee on Education and Health
Virginia	SB1434	Public schools; mandatory virtual learning; provision of required technology and Internet service; emergency. 	"Public schools; mandatory virtual learning; provision of required technology and Internet service; emergency. Provides that if a school board requires students to engage in virtual learning for any reason, whether full time or part time, and a computer and Internet service to connect to the curriculum is required, the school board must provide appropriate technology devices to every student enrolled in the school system so they may access the learning platform. The bill requires school boards to provide adequate Internet service to a student's household at no cost if the student's household income is below 125 percent of the federal poverty guidelines. The bill contains an emergency clause."	0	"Provides that if a school board requires students to engage in virtual learning for any reason, whether full time or part time, and a computer and Internet service to connect to the curriculum is required, the school board must provide appropriate technology devices to every student enrolled in the school system so they may access the learning platform. The bill requires school boards to provide adequate Internet service to a student's household at no cost if the student's household income is below 125 percent of the federal poverty guidelines. "	Amanda F. Chase	Referred to Committee on Education and Health
Virginia	HB1790	Public schools; severe weather conditions and other emergency situations; unscheduled remote learning days. 	"Public schools; severe weather conditions and other emergency situations; unscheduled remote learning days. Provides that when severe weather conditions or other emergency situations have resulted in the closing of any school in a school division for in-person instruction, the school division may declare an unscheduled remote learning day whereby the school provides synchronous or asynchronous instruction, or some combination thereof, to all students in the school in lieu of in-person instruction without a reduction in the amount paid by the Commonwealth from the Basic School Aid Fund, provided that the school division has established an unscheduled remote learning day plan that ensures that every student is provided instruction and services on such unscheduled remote learning day that are comparable in quality to the instruction and services provided to learners on any other remote learning day."	1	"Provides that when severe weather conditions or other emergency situations have resulted in the closing of any school in a school division for in-person instruction, the school division may declare an unscheduled remote learning day whereby the school provides synchronous or asynchronous instruction, or some combination thereof, to all students in the school in lieu of in-person instruction"	Joseph P. McNamara	Passed by for the day
Virginia	HB2105	Early childhood education; quality rating and improvement system participation; School Readiness Committee. 	"Early childhood education; quality rating and improvement system participation; School Readiness Committee. Delays until the 2022%962023 school year the requirement for all publicly funded early childhood education providers to participate in a quality rating and improvement system to be established by the Board of Education by July 1, 2021. The bill also delays from the fall of 2023 to the fall of 2024 the publication of initial quality ratings for such providers. The bill reinstates the School Readiness Committee and alters the composition and scope of the work of the School Readiness Committee."	1	Delays until the 2022-2023 school year the requirement for all publicly funded early childhood education providers to participate in a quality rating and improvement system to be established by the Board of Education	David L. Bulova	Reported from Education (22-Y 0-N)
